#color and background-color properties

1. Which CSS property is used to change the color of the HTML elements?
A. color
B. background-color
C. bgcolor
D. All the above

ANSWER: A
Explanation: The color property is used to set the color of the HTML elements in CSS.



2. Which property is used to change the background color of HTML attribute ?

A. background color 
B. bgcolor
C. color
D. None of the above

ANSWER: A
Explanation: background color is used to change the background color in HTML attribute.


3. Which of the following CSS property is used to set the background image of an element in HTML ?

A. background-color
B. background-image
C. background-attachment
D. None of the above

ANSWER: B
Explanation: background-image is used to set the background image of an element.


4. Which command is used to change the background-color of all paragraph elements to red ?

A. p {background-color: red;}
B. p {background-color: #red;}
C. p {background-color; red:}
D. p {background-color; #red;}

ANSWER: A
Explanation: The syntax to change the background-color for all elements to red is: p {background-color: red;}


5. What is the CSS property to change the position of the background image to center ?

A. background-position: #center;
B. background-position: center;
C. background-position; #center;
D. background-position; center;

ANSWER: B
Explanation: To change the position of th background image to center is by using CSS property: background-position: center;


6. What is the range value of opacity of an element ?

A. 0.0 - 0.1
B. 0.5 - 1.0
C. 0.6 - 1.0
D. 0.0 - 1.0

ANSWER: D
Explanation: The opacity property specifies the transparency of an element and the range varies from 0.0-1.0


7. Which of the following list of colour representation in CSS is allowable?

A. HEX values
B. A valid color name
C. RGB values
D. All of the above 

ANSWER: D 
Explanation: HEX values, RGB values and A valid color name refers to colour representation in CSS




8. Which property of CSS is used to set the blend mode for each background layer of an element ?

A. background-origin
B. background-transform
C. background-collapse
D. background-blend-mode

ANSWER: D
Explanation: background-blend-mmode property is used to define how the background image of an element blends with the background color of the element.


9. In which CSS property used to specify the painting area of the background ?

A. background-clip
B. background-image
C. background-size
D. None of the above

ANSWER: A 
Explanation: background-clip property used to specify the painting the are of the background.


10. List the type of color gradients in CSS 

A. Linear
B. Conic
C. Radial 
D. All of the above

ANSWER: D
Explanation: Linear, Conic and Radial are the type of color gradients in CSS


11. How to create an image reflection in CSS ?

A. image-reflect
B. box-reflect
C. reflect-img 
D. None of the above

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: box reflect property in CSS is used to create an image reflection.


12. Which of the Color Format in a CSS’s six-digit hexadecimal format is the same as color defined in HTML?

A. RGBS
B. RGBa
C. 6-Hex Color
D. 3-Hex Color

ANSWER: C 
Explanation: The format color specifies in hexadecimal value ranging from 00 to FF.


13. Which of the filter property function is used to adjust the brightness of an element’s color ?

A. brightness()
B. dark()
C. light()
D. contrast()

ANSWER: A 
Explanation: brightness() function in filter property is used to adjust the brightness of an element's color.


14. Which of the function in filter property is used to adjust the difference between light and dark values ?

A. dark()
B. light()
C. contrast()
D. brightness()

ANSWER: C
Explanation: A value of 100% or a decimal value of 1 leaves the image while 0 results in black.


15. Which of the function in filter property to create the sophisticated effects on DOM elements ?

A. create()
B. custom()
C. DOM()
D. None of the above

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: custom() function in filter property to create the sophisticated  effects on DOM elements.


16. In which of the function converts an element's color to shade of gray in filter property ?

A. black()
B. shade()
C. grayscale()
D. brightness()

ANSWER: C
Explanation: A decimal value between 0 to 1 is controls the extent of the gray effect.


17. In which filter property function is used to flips an element's colors ?

A. flip()
B. image()
C. contrast()
D. invert()

ANSWER: D 
Explanation: A decimal value between 0 to 1 is to controls the extent of the color-negative effect.


18. In which function applies the saturation effect to an element's color, making it appear more or less vivid in filter property ?

A. saturation()
B. saturate()
C. color()
D. None of the above

ANSWER: A 


19. In which of the function defines a linear gradient as a CSS image ?

A. image()
B. linear-gradient()
C. gradient()
D. grayscale()

ANSWER: B
