#CSSBoxModel

1. Which CSS property is used to specify the maximum width of an elements content box ?

A. max-height property
B. max-width property
C. width property
D. height property

ANSWER: B
Explanation: max-width property in CSS is used to specify the maximum width of an element.


2. The CSS property is used to set the maximum height of the element's content box.

A. height property
B. max-height property
C. max-width property
D. None of the Above

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: max-height property is use to set the maximum height of the element's content box.


3. Which of the CSS property is used to set the minimum width of the element's content box ?

A. width property
B. min-width property
C. max-height property
D. None of the above

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: min-width property is used to set the minimum width of an element's content box.


4. How to set the horizontal alignment of a table-cell box or the block element in CSS ?

A. text-transform
B. text-align
C. text-decoration
D. text-shadow

ANSWER: B
Explanation: text-align is used to define the horizontal alignment of a table-cell box or the block element.


5. How to define the order of the flex item in the grid container ?

A. float 
B. order
C. overflow
D. None of the above

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: order proeprty is used to define the order of the flex item in the grid container and it ordering the flex items.


6. What are the components of the CSS box model ?

A. borders
B. margins
C. padding
D. All the above

ANSWER: D
Explanation: Borders, Margins and Padding are the parts of the CSS box model.

7. Which of the following attributes enlarges an element's top padding ?

A. top
B. height
C. padding-top
D. padding-height

ANSWER: C
Explanation: padding-top is used to add padding to the top of the element.


8. Which display property value perfectly describes the phrase treats the element as inline?

A. list-item
B. block
C. inline
D. inline-block

ANSWER: C
Explanation: inline property value describes the phrase treats the elements in CSS.


9. In which property specifies the style for the bottom border of an element ?

A. border-collapse
B. border-bottom-style
C. border-style-bottom
D. None of the above

AMSWER: B 
Explanation:  border-bottom-style property specifies the style for the bottom border of an element.


10. In which of the following property defines the style for the left border of an element ?

A. border-left width
B. border-left style
C. border-style
D. None of the above

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: border-left style property is used to specify the style for the left border of an element.


11. In which of the following visibility property value is specified by the element is not visible ?

A. hidden
B. collapse
C. visible
D. None of the above

ANSWER: A 


12. Which of the display property value is specified by used internally by browsers to create list items ?

A. inline-block
B. group
C. list-item
D. None of the above

ANSWER: C 
Explanation: list-item is the display property value is specified by used internally by browsers to create list items


13. In Which of the following property is used to controls the horizontal overflow of a block or inline block?

A. overflow
B. overflow-x
C. overflow-y
D. overflow-k 

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: overflow-x is the property used to controls the horizontal overflow of a block or inline block. 


14. In which overflow property value is specified by scrollbars should be provided if content is too big ?

A. visible
B. auto
C. scroll
D. hidden

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: auto is the overflow property value is specified by scrollbars should be provided.


15. Which of the following property used to sets a consistent margin on all four sides of the affected element ?

A. margin
B. border
C. padding
D. None of the above

ANSWER: A 
Explanation: margin is the property in CSS used to sets a consistent margin on all four sides.


16. In which of the following box-sizing property value describes the height and width padding and borders ?

A. content-box
B. border
C. border-box
D. None of the above

ANSWER: C 
Explanation: border-box property of box-sizing value describes the height and width padding and borders.



