#font-family and font-size properties

1. How to set the text wider or narrower compare to the default width of the font ?

A. text-transform
B. font-weight
C. font-stretch
D. font-variant

ANSWER: C 
Explanation: font-stretch property is used to set the text narrower or wider than the default width of the font.


2. How to define the custom fonts using CSS ?

A. custome fonts cannot be defined 
B. @font-face rule
C. src tags
D. None of the above

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: We can define the custom fonts using @font-face rule in CSS


5. Which of the following does not represent a value for font-style property?

A. italic
B. oblique
C. normal
D. none of the above

ANSWER: D 
Explanation: itlaic, oblique and normal are belongs to font-style property.


6. Which value is allowed to synthesize bold or oblique font faces when a font family lacks bold or italic faces?

A. font-weight
B. font-kerning
C. font-synthesis
D. font-variant

ANSWER: C 
Explanation: font-synthesis allows to synthesize bold or oblique font faces when a font family lacks bold or italic faces.


7. Which value selects a normal or small caps face from a font family ?

A. font-variant
B. font-kerning
C. font-synthesis
D. font-weight

ANSWER: A 
Explanation: font-variant selects a normal or small caps face from a font family.


8. Which of the following properties modifies the font-size of the fallback fonts specified by font-family such that the x-height is constant of the font used ?

A. default
B. font-size-adjust
C. font-adjust
D. font-size-fallback

ANSWER: B
Explanation: font-size-adjust property modifies the font-size of the fallback fonts specified by font-family.


9. Which font-size-adjust is used in calculating the size of the fallback fonts ?

A. number
B. auto
C. count 
D. None of the above

ANSWER: A 
Explanation: 


10. “font-variant comes first than font-weight in font attribute”.State true or false.

A. True
B. False

ANSWER: B 
Explanation: Syntax is font: font-weight font-style font-variant font-size/line-height font-family.
